hi Lois from trade options with the
needles come here I hope you're all
having a great day today I want to
present you my new Excel trading journal
template but before I present the
template itself I just want to talk
about how important tracking your trades
is for a few seconds tracking your
trades is essential to your success as a
trader tracking trades is the only way
to learn from your mistakes to learn
from your losses
if you don't track your trades you can't
find out what you're doing right and
what you're doing wrong if you can't do
that and you can't improve one reason
why so many traders are stuck is because
they don't track their trades and it's
not only me that saying this tons of
very successful traders constantly
reiterate the importance of tracking
trades so make sure to track your trades
from now on and let your results guide
you so as you now know the importance of
tracking trades I want to present you
how you can track your trades namely
with my exit trading journal template
obviously you could also create your own
template but from personal experience I
can say that it is quite time-consuming
and it isn't the easiest thing in the
world so if you want to save yourself at
least a few hours of time and a lot of
tedious work then just get mine
with that being said let's dive right
into my Excel trading journal template
this is how my template looks like
without any data inserted so without any
trades this outlooks as you can see
there is space for tons and tons of
trades and a lot of data can be trapped
I divided the top of this template into
three different sections the first
section is the long setup section the
next one is the short setup section and
the last section is the options trade
section so basically what this means is
this section the long setup section is
for long trades or for buying strategies
for buying stock for instance but you
can also use or enter Forex trade
futures trades or any other types of
trades the short setup section is for
short bias trading so if you're shorting
stocks or shorting other assets then the
trades are entered here and the options
trade section is for options trading so
if you're trading options you can also
track this here many trading journal
programs actually don't allow you to
enter your options trades so that's
definitely an advantage these sections
are each divided into two sub sections
as well for instance the long setup
section is divided into Bo which stands
for breakout place and
the buyer place which are too long
strategies that I use however you can
rename this however you want to rename
it it really doesn't matter if you
rename them here at the top it will
change for the entire spreadsheet so the
data that you have to enter manually
after each trade is the entry date entry
time exit date exit time and then the
time in the trade will be displayed
automatically then you should also enter
your entry price exit price and size so
number of shares then your total P&L
will be calculated automatically and
your percentage gain or percentage loss
will also be calculated automatically
another thing that you have to enter is
the Commission's if you want to enter
them you could also leave them out but I
do recommend entering them furthermore
you should also enter the ticker symbol
and last but not least you should enter
some notes and lessons and I really want
to emphasize the importance of actually
entering notes and lessons learned from
your trades if you just enter these
stats like the entry price exit price
you will see your total P&L and you will
see the numbers but to improve you have
to write down what went right what
didn't go so good and how you can
improve next time what did you learn
what lessons did you learn on the trade
if you don't do this then it's pointless
you have to learn from your trades
that's why I really find these two
categories are very important after
entering your trades data will be
analyzed down here so for each strategy
you will see the average time in a trade
and the win percentage the total P&L the
average percentage gain or loss and the
average dollar gain or loss so this will
be displayed separately for each
strategy which is once again a very
important thing different strategies
have to be tracked differently if you
treat all strategies the same way then
tracking trades won't give you good
results different trades are different
and therefore they have to be tracked
and treated differently but obviously
you will also see your total P&L down
here you your total win percentage here
your average dollar volume here your
average percent gain or loss here
furthermore I also implemented the total
Commission's paid the number of trades
here the average time in a trade for all
yours trades next up we have the P&L
today the P&L for the week the P&L for
this month and the P&L for this year
will very important metrics next up we
have P&L charts here and once again I
added a P&L chart for each strategy
because once again different strategies
have to be tracked differently for
instance your options trades have to be
tracked different from your stock or
Forex trade or whatever
and also long buyers trades have to be
treated differently and short biased
rates because they are two completely
different strategies further down we
have the P&L distribution for each of
these strategies so you can see a chart
of the P&L distribution for each of
these strategies and down here I have
rankings which ranks all of the
strategies by total P&L by win
percentage by average percentage gain or
loss and by average dollar gain I will
show you filled out spreadsheet in a few
minutes to show you how this looks with
some data in it but down here you also
have the biggest percent profit the
biggest percent loss the biggest dollar
profit the biggest dollar loss and
average percent gain average percent
loss average dollar gained an average
dollar loss so a few more metrics that
could be helpful to track and right next
to this we have the total P&L chart
so the P&L chart of your overall
portfolio if you add up the P&L of over
your trades right next to this I have a
few other charts that could help you in
improving different aspects of your
trading first off either chart that
compares the P&L of each trade to the
holding time in days so how long how
many days did you hold the trade and
here you might find the correlation you
filled between how long you hold your
trades and the P&L so the outcome of the
trade
next to this I created basically the
same chart just for intraday trades so
oil trades that are held for less than a
day are tracked here where the P&L is
compared to the holding time in hours
minutes and seconds furthermore we have
the P&L by the stock price chart where
the stock price is compared to the P&L
so do you usually do better with higher
price or lower price stocks that's what
you can find out where this charge and
next to this we have a P&L versus entry
chart here you can find out if you trade
best in the morning midday or afternoon
last but not least we have a P&L versus
weekday of entry so which we say is the
most profitable for you when it comes to
entry now I want to show you my template
with some data in it so I just entered
some sample trades and this one I
entered trades for the first long setup
for the first short setup and for short
premium trades and no these are not
through your trades I just made they're
not these are not my trades or anyone
elses trade I just want to show you how
my spreadsheet looks with some data in
it so as you can see here here's the
time that you were in the trade or that
the that I theoretically was in this
trade how many days how many minutes
here you can see the P&L here the
percentage gain or loss here I entered
what I could have learned if this trade
would have been real
and if you scroll down you can see the
total P&L for this strategy with these
trades would be almost $2,000 or fifth
which isn't bad then the average time in
this trade would be around one and a
half days and a few hours or one day and
a few hours the win percentage was 59%
the average percentage gain was 11.5%
and the average dollar gain was 111
point two one all of this is also
available for the other strategies for
instance for the first short setup you
can also see the win percentage total
P&L and the same goes for the options
trades so the total P&L of all the
made-up trades here is about four
thousand and eighty dollars and the win
percentages sixty five point nine
percent and I won't really show you all
the other stats because it doesn't
matter you get the point down here you
can see the different P&L graphs of the
different strategies
and down here you can see the P&L
distribution and finally down here we
have rankings for these strategies in
terms of the total P&L the breakouts
presently performed bets however when it
comes to win rate that short premium
strategy perform best and when it comes
to average percent gain these actually
at a negative average percent gain
whereas to break out a strategy as a
positive percent gain and the biggest
percent profit was 117 percent the
biggest percent loss was 360 percent and
so on
the total P&L graph looks like this and
here you can also see how these charts
look with some actual data in them
and once again all these names can be
changed if you change them at the top
all of these strategies are renamed here
as well generally you can customize this
spreadsheet however you want to
customize it before I conclude this
video I also want to add that I added
notes everywhere for instance up here
general and our tips and here some other
notes just so that if you decide to get
this template with you that you will
know how to use it but you can always
contact me and I will do my best to
respond as fast as possible to help you
out so with that being said I hope you
can find some value in this spreadsheet
I hope it can help you with tracking
your trades and improving your trading
performance last but not least I just
want to re-emphasize the importance of
tracking trades it doesn't matter if you
get this spreadsheet to track your
trades or not just make sure to track
your trades from now on it's so
important to track your trades to
actually improve with that being said
thanks for watching I hope you enjoyed
this video and see you soon
[Music]